#### Analysis with smartvote data 2003-2015 (input by Jan Fivaz / smartvote)

Duc asked me to check, whether there is a possibility to calculate a smartmap (2-dimensional positioning) of the Swiss parties based on smartvote data since 2003. A first prerequisite for such an analysis is a common data base. Meaning that we can only include same (or at least comparable) questions into the calculations for each election year. Attached to this note you find an Excel file containing all smartvote questions since 2003 (sorry, only in German).

The file contains also in seperated tab questions, which were asked with a comparable wording for each of the following time periods: 2003-2015, 2007-2015 and 2011-2015).

A second precondition is high response rate among candidates in order to calculate valid party answers (median or average values of the candidates from each party). The response rates in 2007 and 2011 were extremly high (84%) but in 2003 it was only 50%.

Recommendations with regard to smartmaps:
A smartmap for 2003 would not be valid (too low response rate and only a very limited number of questions comparable to those of 2007-2015).
smartmaps for the years 2007-2015 would feasible.

Recoommendations with regard to other analysis:
"Long run" analysis beginning in 2003 are still feasible and could provide supplementary analysis by focussing on the specific issues covered in all questionnaires (e.g. minimal wage, voting rights for foreigners, joining the EU, nuclear energy, genetic engineering, ...) or in form of a one-dimensional rating (left-right). Such analysis would be unique (no other media will do comparable stuff).
Also comparative analyses of questions for the periods 2007-2015 or especially for the last legislature 2011-2015 could be very interesting. In these cases we could base our analysis on much more questions (see Excel file).